#summary Where to download the binary packages of this project.
#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy

= Introduction =

This page collects the information of binary packages of this project built by community. If you built and are maintaining binary package for a specific operating system which is not listed here, feel free to contact us to add the link here, so that other users can find and download your package easily.

== openSUSE ==

YaST repositories:
 * openSUSE 11.0: http://download.opensuse.org/repositories/home:/suzhe/openSUSE_11.0/
 * openSUSE 10.3: http://download.opensuse.org/repositories/home:/suzhe/openSUSE_10.3/

Add the repository for your system, and install either google-gadgets-gtk or google-gadgets-qt package as you want.

== Ubuntu ==
You can find binary package for xUbuntu 8.04 at:
 * http://download.opensuse.org/repositories/home:/suzhe/xUbuntu_8.04/

Or this site, which provides binary packages for both Ubuntu 8.04 and 8.10:
 * http://www.getdeb.net/app/Google+Gadgets

== Debian sid ==
We are woking on the binary package for Debian, stay tuned.

== Mandriva ==
You can find google-gadgets in contrib repository of Mandriva >= 2008.1. You may want to enable backports repository if you want to get the latest version of google-gadgets.

A simple 'urpmi google-gadgets' command will get it installed. Choose the host you want, the gtk or the qt one. 

== Fedora ==
Yum repositories:
 * Fedora 10: http://download.opensuse.org/repositories/home:/suzhe/Fedora_10/
 * Fedora 9: http://download.opensuse.org/repositories/home:/suzhe/Fedora_9/
 * Fedora 8: http://download.opensuse.org/repositories/home:/suzhe/Fedora_8/

Add the repository for your system, and install either google-gadgets-gtk or google-gadgets-qt package as you want.

== Slackware ==
You can get binary package for Slackware 12.1 from:
 * http://repository.slacky.eu/slackware-12.1/desktop/google-gadgets/

== FreeBSD ==
FreeBSD Port:
 * http://www.freshports.org/deskutils/google-gadgets