#summary TODO List
#labels Phase-Requirements

= Introduction =

This page is dedicated to collect future plans and action items of this project. All items listed below are proposals. If we decide to implement any of them, a corresponding issue entry shall be created to track the development progress.

If you want to help us implement any of following items, please first follow [BecomingAContributor this instruction] to become a contributor of this project, then send your plan to our [http://groups.google.com/group/google-gadgets-for-linux-dev dev maillist]. You may create an issue to track your progress. If you have any questions, feel free to ask us on dev maillist. We'd appreciate your contribution very much.

= Details =

The TODO List contains several different categories. Each item belongs to one specific category and has a priority value assigned. The priority value ranges from 1 to 5, the smaller the higher.

== Core code and Design ==

 * Reduce the usage of std::map and other complex containers.
 * Use std::string and static string literals as much as possible.
 * *(Almost DONE)* Reduce the size of each class, by:
   # *(Almost DONE)* Re-order the data members;
   # *(Almost DONE)* Use more effective data types, such as replacing bools with bit fields.
 * *(DONE)* Refactory Signal, Slot and !ScriptableHelper to support class based property registration.
 * *(DONE)* Evaluate the effect of !SmallObjectAllocator and use it to more classes if possible.
 * Investigate the binary size and memory usage of every classes and functions, and optimize them as much as possible.
 * Reduce unnecessary inline functions.
 * Performance optimization, especially the performance of graphics operation.

== New Features in Gadget API level ==

 * DOM2 and DOM3 support
 * URL detection in edit element
 * Support for [http://code.google.com/intl/zh-CN/apis/desktop/docs/script.html displayAPI]

== New extensions ==

 * Option extension based on GConf
 * Option extension based on KConfig
 * *(DONE)* !JavaScript extension based on !QtScript
 * !JavaScript extension based on KJS or [http://webkit.org/projects/javascript/ WebKit JavaScriptCore]
 * !JavaScript extension based on [http://code.google.com/p/v8/ V8]
 * Browser extension based on [http://live.gnome.org/WebKitGtk WebKit gtk/cairo port]
  See the [http://code.google.com/p/google-gadgets-for-linux/issues/detail?id=132 initial implementation] written by jmalonzo.
 * Audio and Mediaplayer extensions based on KDE Phonon

== New host related features ==

 * Sidebar host based on Qt
 * Customizable module loading
 * Support of global hotkeys
 * Better support of window manager integration
 * Support of system taskbar

== Porting / Platform integration ==

 * *(Almost DONE)* KDE Plasma integration
 * Support of OpenGL acceleration (both cairo and qt)
 * Port to other X-Window based and UNIX like operation systems, such as !OpenSolaris and FreeBSD
 * Port to [http://www.clutter-project.org/ Clutter]
 * Port to [http://www.directfb.org/ DirectFB]

== Security related ==

 * *(DONE)* Support of fine-grained access control per gadget

== Packaging ==

 * *(DONE)* Provide metadata for deb and rpm packages.
 * *(DONE)* Provide desktop files

== Documentation ==

 * Public design doc
 * Complete API reference
 * Developer's guide

== Others ==
 * Localize to other languages